COS30019 - Introduction to AI Assignment 2 
Page 1 of 3 
Part B – Machine Learning and Software Integration 
¾ Due  11:5 9pm Sunday  1RYHPEHU 2025
¾ Contributes 50% to your Assignment 2 result.
¾ Group of 3-4 students.
The Part B of Assignment 2 (2B) requires you to work with your group to implement ML algorithms to train 
ML models
 for traffic prediction and integrate the traffic predictor with Part A to develop a fully functioned 
,QFLGHQW&
ODVVLILFDWLRQ6\VWHP,&6. 
In Part B of Assignment 2, the team can use any machine learning technique or combinations of them. You 
should take advantage of existing libraries such as PyTorch, 7ensorflow, Keras, Theano, etc. We will 
provide you with a small dataset RI 7UDIILF$FFLGHQWV. You should use this dataset for the following purposes: 
t
raining ML models for predicting WUDIILFLQFLGHQWVand testing/evaluating the performance of your models. At 
the very least, your ,&6 system will need to include the two basic deep learning techniques. Your ,&6 
system will also need to implement at least one other technique (to be identified by you and approved by 
your
 tutor) to train another machine learning (ML) model and give a comprehensive comparison between 
different models. Your program will at least need to implement the following features: 
¾ At the minimum, the ,&6 will have to be able to train ML models using the datasetSURYLGHGandgive
meaningful predictions based on these models
¾ A
 GUI will be available for the user input, parameter settings and visualisation (and a configuration file
for the defaults).
The Traffic-,QFLGHQW&ODVVLILFDWLRQ Problem 
In this problem, there are four main tasks for the team: 
 Implement data processing program to extract data from the given dataset and store it in appropriate
data structures to enable ML models to be trained/tested;
 Implement
 ML'/ algorithms to train ML'/ models for traffic LQFLGHQW prediction using the provided 
dataset.
 Implement
 aQ,QFLGHQW&ODVVLILFDWLRQ6\VWHPWKDWZLOOQRWLI\XVHUVRILQFLGHQWVRQDPDS.
 Integrat
e Part A of Assignment 2 with the ,&6 to replace the nodes by the intersections, the costof 
each edge by the travel time and perform the calculation to find the top-k pat hs to travel from O toD 
for any given pair (O,D) of origin and destination.
System requirements 
For this assignment, we expect that the team will implement data processing methods and various ML'/ 
algorithms (including &11) to train ML'/ models for LQFLGHQW prediction. The team will need to use the given 
dataset for training and also testing the MLGO models to evaluate their performance. 
The team will also need to port the programs you developed previously for Assignment 2A to enable it to 
search for optimal paths on the D map. The edge cost will need to be replaced by the predicted travel time 
and subsequently, the optimal paths can be calculated and returned. 
The basic version of ICS will be for the Kuching area. A user can specify the origin and destination of their 
trip from the list of landmarks. The system then returns up to five (5) routes from O to D with the estimated 
travel time along each route. To simplify the calculation, you can make a number of assumptions: (i) The 
speed limit on every link will be the same and set at 60km/h; (ii) When an accident is detected it follows a 
simple formula following the attachment on CANVAS.
Note that, the objective is not to better Google Maps but to utilise the AI techniques you have 
COS30019 - Introduction to AI Assignment 2 
Page 2 of 3 
learned (e.g., machine learning for image classification) to solve a real-world problem. 
Report file 
You must also include a report which has to be either in Microsoft Word or in PDF whose name is your Team 
ID (for example, A2B_Group123.PDF) containing your report. The aim of this report is for you to summarise 
your understanding of the problem and the algorithms you have used to solve the problem. We are most 
interested in the insights you have gained, especially those using data obtained by running your 
software. 
Report Details: The report must be between 8 and 10 pages (excluding cover page and TOC). 
• Cover page: including details of all group members (i.e., full names and student IDs), signed by all 
members of the group.
• Table of contents (TOC).
• Instructions: Basic instructions of how to use your program. You can also include a note containing 
anything else you want to tell the marker, such as how to use the GUI version of your program, and 
something particular about your implementation.
• Introduction: Introduce the Traffic Incident Classification Problem and concise information about the 
algorithms the team have implemented.
• Features/Bugs/Missing: Include a list of the features you have implemented. Clearly state if a 
required feature has not been implemented. Failure to do this will result in penalties. Include a list of 
any known bugs. Also, anything else you want to tell the marker, such as how to use the GUI version 
of your program, and something particular about your implementation.
• Testing: Provide an overview of the test cases you have created to test your program (either 
manually or automatically). Report the results of testing your program. By testing, we refer to both the 
evaluation of the ML models and the software testing you have conducted to ensure that the software 
works well.
• Insights: Present and discuss the qualities of different ML algorithms used in your assignment. 
Which algorithms are better and why? Use data collected to support your points.
• Research (if applicable): If you managed to do some additional research to improve the program in 
some ways, please report it here.
• Conclusion: Conclude with a discussion about ML algorithms and their suitability to the problem and 
about the integration of different modules to produce the end-to-end ICS. Include thoughts about how 
you could improve performance.
• Acknowledgements/Resources: Include in your report a list of the resources you have used to 
create your work. A simple list of URL's is not enough. Include with each entry a basic description of 
how the person or website assisted you in your work.
• References: Cite the sources you referred to in your Assignment (implementation, report, etc.)
T
ips: 
• All figures and tables need to be properly captioned with sensible descriptions.
• Report presentation should include header/footer information (pages numbers, etc.)
Marking Scheme: 
Requirements (or equivalent sections) 
Mark 
Implement appropriate data processing programs to extract data from the provided dataset and 
store data in appropriate data structures to enable ML models to be trained & tested 
9 
Implement at least 3 ML algorithms (including CNN and any algorithms of your choice) for 
traffic incident prediction. 
7(x3) 
Conduct comprehensive evaluation to compare different ML models 15 
Integration of Part A & Part B to develop an end-to-end software for ICS 15 
Testing: At least 10 test cases have been created to cover different problem scenarios. Test 
results have been checked and documented. 
10 
COS30019 - Introduction to AI Assignment 2 
Page 3 of 3 
Some ideas for research initiatives 
- The standard version of the system only deals with a small area of Kuching and uses a very small 
dataset accident images. Under this research initiative, you can look at more comprehensive 
datasets of different classes of accidents. Data processing for large amount of data will be a 
challenge.
- Visualising your system predictions and route recommendations. Inspired by Google Maps Traffic, 
can you build something similar using open source resources such as OpenStreetMap?
- For other ideas, please feel free to do the research yourselves and discuss with your tutors to get 
their approval first before doing the research component.
Report: Clear and provide sufficient information about the problem and your algorithm/solution 
AND the insights you have obtained through your program. 
15 
Research: If you show some initiatives in researching about the problem and solutions, or 
carrying out extensive tests to provide interesting data about the algorithms, or getting some 
clever optimization, etc. with a well-written Research section in the report to discuss and 
demonstrate these initiatives 
15 
Total 100 
You need to follow good programming practice (e.g., well-designed, well-structure codes with 
clear and helpful comments). Failure to do so get penalty. 
Up to    
-10
For each individual student: (the maximum mark a student can get for Assignment 2B is 100 
and the minimum mark is 0) Mark 
Failure to provide in class updates of the assignment progress to your tutor. There is no 1 
week gap between first & last update 
Up to    
-40
Failure to contribute to the work performed by the team or to collaborate with other team 
members to achieve the desired outcomes for the project. 
Up to    
-80
